UC Press Guidelines on the Use of AI Tools by Authors, Peer Reviewers, and Freelancers
as of July 31, 2025

UC Press recognizes that the use of artificial intelligence (AI) tools is playing an evolving and increasingly important role in the academic enterprise that presents both opportunities and challenges for content creators, peer reviewers, and other stakeholders involved in scholarly publishing. These guidelines and policies represent UC Press’s expectations for content creators (e.g. book authors, authors of journal articles, and authors of other works published by UC Press), peer reviewers, and freelancers involved in the publishing process (e.g. copyeditors, development editors, illustrators, designers, indexers, etc.). These guidelines and policies are generally applicable to those working with UC Press throughout the publishing process; however, in some cases, they have been adapted by specific groups such as journal editorial teams. If you have questions that are not addressed by these guidelines and policies, please direct them to your book editor, journal editorial team, or other UC Press staff member, who will provide further guidance. 

 

Content Creators

Authors are responsible and legally accountable for the content of their work. AI tools may not be credited or attributed as an author on any work published by UC Press. Any content generated by artificial intelligence does not meet the requirements of authorship. AI-assisted improvements to human-generated texts for readability, formatting, and style, and to ensure that the texts are free of errors in grammar, spelling, punctuation and tone are permitted. However, authors who use AI tools to produce text or images/graphics, or to collect or process data, must inform their editors of this use and be transparent about it in their manuscripts so that readers understand the role of these tools in the development of the work. The author is fully responsible for the entirety of their work. They must ensure that it is original, accurate, does not plagiarize others’ work, and appropriately cites and references others’ work, including any content that is generated by AI.

 

Peer Review

We expect reviewers to do their own original assessment and compose their own reports and feedback for content creators and editors. Thus, any use of AI tools in the composition of peer review reports or feedback is strictly prohibited. If any part of the evaluation of the claims made in the manuscript was in any way supported by an AI tool, we ask peer reviewers to declare the use of such tools transparently in the peer review report. Any loading of manuscripts into AI tools may constitute a breach of copyright and is also strictly prohibited by UC Press.

 

Freelancers and Independent Contractors 

Those involved in the content creation process who are not directly employed by the University of California (e.g., copyeditors, designers, indexers, etc.) may not load proposals or manuscripts into AI tools either in whole or in part. Moreover, freelancers hired by the University of California Press may not use AI technologies to generate original content to be used in UC Press publications. This extends to editors of UC Press journals and any individuals they or their institutions engage to assist with journal editorial responsibilities. 

 

As AI tools continue to evolve, UC Press remains committed to upholding the highest standards of academic integrity, transparency, and ethical responsibility. These guidelines serve as a framework for navigating the complex interplay between emerging technologies and scholarly communication. We will continue to revisit and revise these guidelines as the tools and technologies develop. We encourage ongoing dialogue, careful consideration, and adherence to these expectations to ensure that the use of AI tools aligns with our shared values of trust, authorship, and academic rigor.

